[Music]
you
so welcome back to this lecture on
long-term memory and in the last lecture
we looked at what is long-term memory
how it is stored what is its format and
what is the forgetting that it happens
or how does the forgetting happen for
long-term memory and we looked at
several forgetting theories like decay
theory the theory of in improper
encoding the interference theory and so
on and so forth so continuing from there
the last thing that we did in the last
lecture was how does rate rival really
work and so this rate rifle failures how
does it really process and so one thing
which you were saying is in terms of the
tribal queue
failure so if our improperly travel
queue is used how does forgetting suffer
so how do we make this happens really
improve this retrieval cue and so what
retrieval cue works the best so what is
the way which we can improve this
retrieval cue kind of a system so one of
the things in which can help people to
learn to remember that from long term
memory is something called the encoding
specificity principle basically queues
that whatever way in whatever format you
remembered in whatever way you
remembered if I have the same context
back in whatever context you people
remember if I bring the same context
back people tend to remember more
nothing of when you are giving an exam
what you tend to remember is in which
page the answer was there what was the
page like what was drawn on top of the
page everything comes to mind but the
answer doesn't come to mind and so if
people are tested where they learn back
the chances are that the context because
this context service additional cue
let's see if this is the cue which is
connected to my target there are several
other cues from the environment which
are present when I am learning it for
example the atmosphere which is there
the kind of noise which was happening
the state that you were there in the
amount of the type of people which
represent when you are learning and so
when you are remembering it back all
these additional cues all these
additional features will also help you
in recalling back things or
following that the answer and so this is
what is called the encoding principle so
if the context this is what the context
look like if the context is the same
here then people tend to remember but
and so let's look at what encoding
specificity principle basically tells us
so in encoding specificity principle we
have two different types one is the
context dependent main memory so improve
ability to remember if tested in the
same environment as the initial learning
so in the if people are learned in a
particular environment in let's say they
will learn in a library if they test you
back if I test you back in a library it
is much better if I if I make you read
something in a classroom and test you
back on to the classroom the other
features of the classroom where you sack
the kind of seed that you sat in the
kind of people that were there with you
all these will help you in more
retrieval because the number of
retrieval cues will increase and so
number will travel queues will increase
which means that the chances of
recognition increases as each queue has
a weight and so the added weight will
increase the efficiency of queuing so
better recall if tested in a classroom
where you initially learn then you went
to move to a new classroom or if running
room smells of chocolate or what ball
people are better to remember if that
the chocolate smell or the chocolate mud
ball smell is same so compared to
different smells for no reason
now another context effect that is
popular in most researchers and
psychology and particularly the kind of
research that I do is basically called
priming effect so basically working
something for sleep and memory and so
one of the things that we have looked
into is the chronological cycle the
basically the ultrathin and the
there isn't the chronical reason that
people have so people have the set
rhythms there are ups and downs which
are there and so in within days the
system the human metabolism goes up and
down so that for example at two o'clock
in the morning 2:00 to 3:00 there's a
deep in this rhythm technological the
chrono biological rhythm which is there
so that is what we have to take care of
and we are testing people are when we
are doing psychological experiments
because if you learn in a high in a in a
high metabolic state and if you not
retrieve it back in a low metabolic
state you will have differences so we
have to think about that and so this is
another factor which you have to think
about what time of the day is also
important let's say that if we remember
something run at 3 p.m. and then it is
better to perform that at 3 p.m. there
in 9 p.m. they call 3 p.m. is the first
nadir is the first dip that is there in
in your biological cycle and at 3 p.m.
the metabolic rate or the metabolic
system is at a very low rate and so if
none at this metabolic rate remembering
back at that metabolic rate is much
better than remembering at any other
metabolic rate when it is at 9 p.m. so
an experiment was done with diverse to
find out whether this works or not and
so the divers women do not a particular
kind of a list or list of word were
given to people who dived under water
and so they learnt the list on land and
on water and they again so diverse they
use there were two kind of divers one
who was sitting on the water over the
water and one under the water and they
learned lists over the water under the
water and later on already tribal was
done the trial was done both on land and
underwater and so what happened is those
divers who learned list underwater the
retrieval was better underwater and for
those divers who learned list over water
on land their performance was better on
land and so that is what you see water
land land water water water land land
in both these cases the performances are
better than so they sir always better
than the performance here so words under
hard under water are better recalled
underwater in words and cut under land
are better equal under land now with
context effect
you also have in the encoding
specificity you also have something
called state dependent features so
basically improved recall
related to internal physiology or
emotional state contact dependent effect
external environmental factors and state
dependent effect depends on the internal
physiology so what is the body
physiology when you're remembering
something when you are recalling
something that also has a lot to say
about how recall really progresses so
what you are trying to achieve or what
is your body physiology will actually
also support you are the tribal and so
for example moods or emotions have a lot
to think so if you are negatively
emotion or if you are feeling negative
when you are learning a list and then we
are trying to retrieve back this list if
at this point of time you are still
feeling that negativity this will lead
you to learn better
so people who learn under certain
emotionality when they retrieve it back
that happens or for people who it is
better or people who learn and a certain
mood determining it back under the same
mode is better so bipolar depresses
information learn and so in experiments
were done on bipolar depressive it was
found out that informations which people
learned these people learned of the
manic state they when they try to test
it under manic state the important
recall was better than when test another
depressive so these many peopre see
people go under phases so this is the
kind of phase this is called the mania
phase where they are hyperactive and
this is the depression phase where they
are not where they are very depressed so
no kind of activity again mania and
negative depression so this is called
bipolar disorder they keep on switching
between mania and depression so once
once they are very excited if they learn
something
they are very excited and they try to
remember this when they're depressed
doesn't work three qualities for if you
are drunk when you are learning
something and you recall better if drunk
then and the sober so basically wouldn't
suggest that but then if you if your
metabolic state is having alcohol if you
have heightened alcoholic content or
your metabolic state is such that it's
supposed alcohol intake and if you learn
something there then recall is better
when you are drunk then when you are
sober because this is where it was
encoded and this is how it should be
another feature or another effect which
promotes recall is called the spacing
effect what does it say so better to
study for short periods of time than for
one long period of time so if there is a
list of item that you have to remember
or if there is a number of items that
you have to remember it is better to
space it off with basically means that
break it off so what you tend to do is
if you are learning a lesson what you
tend to do is break that lesson into
several parts remember the lessons in
two parts learn this lesson in two parts
this is called this spacing effect and
so event was also tested this is called
the massed practice versus spaced
practice kind of a arrangement in math
practice event was tried to learn the
whole list in one go so hundred lists
with 100 words each in one go and so it
was not easy to do but what he did was
when he tried to learn only one list
take a break again take another less
than none it was much better this is
called the spacing effect a spacing
effect what you tend to do is take the
whole section or whole chapter which you
are learning break it into smaller parts
and then start learning with it and then
I think that is a good idea to learn
that is to learn how to better learn
something so one hour per day for eight
days leads to better recall than eight
hours of cramming in one day and so this
is what I see more students doing just
before the exam what the
to do is that they start climbing or
they start losing the sleepover and so
they go into this for five hours of
learning everything and then coming back
and then there is a failure why it's a
failure because spacing something gives
you enough time for the neurons to
basically recuperate back to basically
regenerate back and so they can store
more information but then if you keep on
exciting and you're on over a period of
time these neurons also have a kind of
an no boat kind of a system where they
don't get excited after a period of time
there is a show this the dull state act
at that point of time and so they cannot
excite after a number of excitations and
so that is what happens and so they are
not able to remember anything
so why because encoding variability best
to encode in a variety of ways to attach
a wider variety of memory cues to the
material spacing practice allows you to
have more variability what will happen
is that if you break the lesson into
several parts and start learning it
there will be so many other cues because
as you take breaks and you come back
learning the context the surrounding
will change and the number of
surrounding cues will be there the
chances are that even if you do not
remember one part of information there
are several other parts you will
remember but if let's say in one context
you are learning and if something goes
wrong if you forget something from the
context the whole information will go
away so it's like learning things in in
small chunks and when that happens where
as they will start learning in different
different chunks the environment keeps
on changing the number of changes of the
environment will give you more number of
cues more the number of cues more the
chances of remembering and that so
that's what really happens and that is
what spacing effect is all about so we
were also discussing about something
called the different kinds of memory and
so that is what I showed to you so there
are several subdivisions and memory as I
said there's something called semantic
memory which is the memory for general
knowledge so it stores most information
into it stores information
like the facts arithmetic rule its
stores information like how what is the
meaning of bigger what is the meaning of
smaller it stores information like what
is the capital of Finland what is the
capital of united says who are the first
u.s. president who was the first Indian
president who is the only lady president
Prime Minister of India or things like
where is America from here or what is a
wheel cart what is a cow that kind of
information is general knowledge
information because these are something
which you need to know and we which are
facts which today so also informations
like where will the Sun Rise when will
the Sun set and that kind of information
now episodic memory those which have
events or which remember events so this
is things like my 12th class farewell my
first birthday party
my first fling which was there my first
day at school
my first day at college those kind of
things my first party the most amazing
party in my life and all those
highlights of your high life events of
your memory or of your life is what this
episodic memory is it's like an episode
so it's like a film where as semantic
memory is like a text so it has
knowledge into it but no even related to
it episode acknowledge or episodic
memory is like a event so it is like a
film so you have all the sounds and
lights and everything into it and that
is what an episodic memory will look
like but semantic memory are bare facts
it's like a newspaper so a very crude
comparison is episodic memory is like
television but then the semantic memory
is like a newspaper but then whether I
say episodic and semantic you do have to
remember where episodic memory has to
have semantic memory into it but
semantic memory need not necessarily
have episodic events example when I say
what is an Apple define an Apple and
when you define me an Apple you do not
really need to think about an apple or
when you saw your first act
first episode with an apple you can say
that it's a fruit is a red green blue in
color it's not blue in color but then
red of green in color or it tastes like
this that is the kind of information
that you relate but nowhere along the
line do you have to think your first
encounter with the Apple you do not have
to think when you met your first Apple
or when you ate your first article or
where you learn the word Apple but in
episodic memory you have to have
segmented memory embedded into it
for example I say your first birthday
when I say your first birthday there is
a schema there is a basic event that you
think about so what happened in your
first birthday so in your first birthday
you might have got a toy or you might
have got a certain kind of cake for that
you have to know what is a cake what
does it taste like what is the meaning
of the word cake and what is the meaning
of the word toy and what kind of toy so
with movie you have newspaper items also
or facts and knowledge also but in a
newspaper you do not have these events
into it so newspapers are static and TVs
dynamic and that is the difference
between what are semantic and episodic
memories so basically most and then the
semantic and episodic memory are what
are called explicit memory because when
you remember it you are conscious about
it you consciously think about it so
when you think about Apple you
consciously are searching your long-term
memory for DiNapoli's and if I ask you
to differentiate between what are Apple
is and what in our range is or what a
mango is you consciously do this task
you ask your long-term memory what is an
Apple what is an orange and what is
mango and differentiate between it so
you bei are conscious you are aware of
what you are doing or if I ask you to
tell me your farewell how it went or
let's say your first day in college then
you will relate events of what happened
you came here whom do you meet for the
first time what are the events which
took place how it unfolded and so on and
so forth you can briefly tell me like a
movie so you are aware you are
interacting with that particular thing
and so both of these are consciously
nature whereas there is a kind of memory
which is called procedural memory which
is implicit in nature how it is
impressive in nature for things like how
do you ride a bicycle if I ask you how
to ride a bicycle or 21 days to bicycle
or 7 ask to teaching bicycle most of you
will not be able to tell me so most
people have tried this in my class and I
ask them how do you ride a bicycle most
people say you get on to it and start
paddling
but then how do you get on to it and
start pedaling that's very that seems
very funny but some people say you sit
on it and you start riding
if you sit on it on a static bicycle if
you fall so basically then there are
steps to it but you cannot vocalize it
you cannot go ahead and they late it and
that is the problem with it so
procedural memory or non conscious they
do not interact you do that so bicycling
is something which you do but you're not
aware of it and a popular joke is that
somebody said someone when he was riding
a bicycle of look the tire on your back
of your bicycle is not moving he saw and
he fell why because he became conscious
as soon as he became conscious the
bicycle from the bicycle he fell and
that's what it's all about in implicit
memory because you are not consciously
aware as soon as he become consciously
aware then problem arises so these are
the subdivisions of long term memory and
so also how we will discuss about these
memory types in the upcoming lecture
there are also so as we discuss these
explicit and implicit memories explicit
memories are called declarative in
nature they hold facts information in
ideas and then there are procedural
memories they they look at things like
how things are done how a particular
thing happens and so on and so forth so
basically these declarative procedural
differences is in terms of explicitly or
explicit e of it
so whether you are aware of it or not
and so this is another distinction which
is there in long-term memory the
procedural versus declarative type
whether a member is conscious or not and
within the declarative as I said you
will have three types sorry two types
you will have the semantic type which is
facts and knowledge and
we'll have the episodic type which is
basically the events of your life and
within the procedural you will have
classical conditioning so those things
that you learn from classical
conditioning you will not know so
fascicle conditioning is a way of
learning in which something is given to
you so it is called reinforcement
induced learning so you do a particular
behavior because something is given to
you for example think of those chips
packet which say that buy it because
something comes free with it so free is
the reward that you get and because of
free you are buying something and that
is classical conditioning so you don't
think too much and that is procedural in
nature or you have habits habits are
also procedural in nature because if
your habit of let's say I have a habit
of scratching my head if that is my
habit I don't think about doing it or I
have some other habit which is there so
habits are mostly non conscious forms of
memory you think about it and similarly
the third form is called priming in
priming also you don't consciously think
about that the information is provided
to you so basically conscious the
information is not given to you some
kind of information brief facts about
something is provided to and that facts
help you doneita perception is what is
called priming and so these are the
three types of memories which are out
there now there is a level of processing
framework which is which has been used
or which has been named in addition to
the Atkinson and Shiffrin model and so
what is this level of processing
framework this level of processing
framework says that there is no one
store two stores of memory so that can
change - model say is about three stores
of memory so I have a short-term store I
have a sensory register I have a
short-term store and I have a long-term
store into memory so three stores to be
looked at and so what happens here in
this case is that there are three stores
and three process which makes you
basically go ahead and process
information
and so there are processing systems or
there are processing process which moves
information but then there is a
conceptualization of memory which sees
that it is not three stores which slows
memory there is one store and that is
called the level of processing store
so what the level of processing store
says is that information there is one
single information processing or store
but then what differentiates different
kinds of memory is what is the kind of
processing that is applied and so they
talk about two kinds of processing one
is called the elaborate rehearsal so
what is the kind of rehearsal that you
do with information that will decide how
you have processed an information and
the other is called the maintenance
rehearsal so in maintenance yourself
what happens is an information is
basically processed or it is basically a
it's basically rehearsed for just the
maintenance purpose so remembering a
phone number from a telephone
conversation for dialing it further at
some point of time is basically
maintenance yourself because you do not
want anything in future with that number
and so will not process it at a deeper
level but elaborately your cell is
basically processing something at a
deeper level so let's say somebody gives
you a phone number and this person you
do not want to remember for the rest of
your life or any part of your life and
so what you will do is you'll dial these
numbers on extend your dialing call
center or somebody for help which you
won't want a further in life that is
basically maintaining a secure cell so
you will repeat the numbers to the point
of time that you dial it once we else
connected to it the number is of no
meaning to you but let's say that in
your first day in college a beautiful
girl approaches you and
your number and now you are immediately
head-over-heels for this person you
remember that number each number is now
related to a meaning is provided of
meaning for example flowers this that
all kinds of things are associated with
each number which is out there and so
that number you might never forget and
that is what is called a laboratory
rehearsal so a laboratory answer is a
process where you attach meaning kind of
a meaning which makes information
retrieval easy so more processing you do
the more elaborate rehearsal it acts out
to be and so basically to to prove that
this kind of a system exists
participants were told to answer
questions as quickly as possible on
words which are shown on a screen so for
example the word which is shown here is
screen so three type questions were
asked one is what is the capital letter
is it in capital letter what does it
rhyme with and does it fit with the
sentence for example the - job over the
mailman so three types of questions were
asked quickly they had to relate this
question so word was shown to people and
they were asked to retrieve back these
kind of questions what do you think
happened so later on a surprise recall
test participant showed better memory
for words that have fit in a sentence
why they remembered better because this
the word then was processed from meaning
so that - jumped over the fence or
jumped over my friend
or jumped over to meet me is actually
the word dog and so when it is processed
for the word Bo G which now has a
meaning so when we are asking how many
capital letters were there or whether it
is capital or not you are not making
meaning of the word do G or if I even if
I'm asking questions like what does it
rhyme with frog or not I'm not
interpreting it in a meaning level I am
interpreting it is non-caustic level but
when I put this new sentence it has to
mean something that sentence need a
completion and for that the word has to
have a meaning and that is why it is
required better so better recall because
deeper processing for these types of
questions which force participants to
think about the meaning of
that's what I've been saying so this is
kind of and so the dog in the last
sentence had went through something
called elaborate rehearsal deliberate
rehearsal is a system in level of
processing which says that information
if they are processed for a deeper
meaning for some kind of meaning they go
through algebra herself but information
like what whether the word was in
capitals or not or whether the first
letter was capital or not required
maintenance yourself because you don't
need to process the word for some kind
of deeper meaning now a feature of
memory that we have to talk about is
called reconstructing memory as we saw a
long-term memory is generally rika
reconstructive in nature which means
that it it suffers from several
inaccuracies whenever you store
something an exact replica of that
doesn't come back there is always male
ability in it there is always in
accuracies in it and that is what is
called reconstruction of memory
so basically retelling of stories leads
to distortions of what is remembered and
so this kind of reconstructive memory
was testing of reconstruction of memory
or that may be tiny accurate were tested
long back by Fredrick Bartlett and what
Fredrick Bartlett did was he wanted to
test how these reconstructions work in
terms of everyday life process so what
he did was he gave a story called the
war of the ghost to a couple of people
to read and then later gave them some
time to recall back the story now when
people recall back the story they
changed the story according to their own
biases according to what they wanted to
so most of the items in the story was
there but then the story was somehow
change in a manner and this is called
reconstruction and this is the first
evidence of reconstruction so the kind
of memory that you have the memory
system that we talk about is highly
inaccurate in nature it is highly
reconstructive which means that only
gist's of information is remember
when you see a scene when you hear a
particular audio of something or a movie
or this happens with us also if you go
to see a movie and when you come back
from the movie and ask you what do you
see in a movie you will be able to tell
in five or six sentence what you find a
movie
now the movie was three years which
means that you have to remember each
part of it but that doesn't happen what
you tend to remember the gist of it and
that is what memories are highly
deconstructed also the way you will
describe the memory base is based on
your expectations so if you expected a
memory to be action the you will
highlight the action part and you will
not tolerate some other part and so that
is basically called reconstruction so
eyewitness memory is subjected to
distortion when leading questions are
also there is there is a phenomena in
reconstruction of memory which is
related to something called eyewitness
memory so whenever an excellent happens
is people who are witness to the taxon
accident are called eyewitnesses and so
it has been found that people who relate
accidents or relate events they have
highly inaccurate memories so what
happened or what could be done is that
if certain questions are asked in frame
in such a way that they they give them a
leading answer or they give them some
kind of information they tend to change
their memory or reconstruct memory for
example in in an experiment which Loftus
did where they showed people two cars
collide with each other with certain
speed and later on they were asked
certain questions questions like this
another cost paths are at the stop sign
or what sign were actually yell sign a
participant later also recognized stop
signs 59% of the time because what
happened is that in the initial picture
Loftus didn't show the there was no sign
no stop sign and this is basically
something which Loftus added on to the
participants and since the question gave
them all the questions which are asked
the very leading question in match their
schema it's match the way they saw the
incident that leads them to make false
recognitions so basically an eyewitness
testimony the facts to be remembered is
that recall is not an exact replica of
the original event what really happens
is that original events are not recall
and so there is always
recall that also recall a construction
recall is a construction which is
rebuilt from various sources so the
different different sources something we
can remember from experience with matter
into it so whatever you are recalling
something back it is basically a
reconstruction is basically
reconfiguration of several facts and
that can come from several sources
it could be something which you actually
saw something which you actually think
you saw something that you read which
you actually know and so something at
which something somebody else said all
this information will add up to form the
recall orphan fit memories into existing
believes or schemas so there are certain
schemas which is there and so memories
tend to fit into the schemas a schema is
basically a container so when I say
classroom the classroom schema is
basically the idea that there will be
one teacher when stool some students
they're talking to each other of the
class board and this is an expectation
so schema is basically this kind of a
framework which is out there and so when
something fits in through the schema it
is basically easily processed so if I
say that student came to the class with
red shirt on it is acceptable but when I
say a student beside the student in the
class how are sitting not possible
because I was not in a schema for class
and so this kind of a thing is that so
when things fit into the schema so it is
perfectly okay to say somebody came with
a pink shirt or a pink trouser to the
class that's perfectly okay and so
people will believe it and that fits a
schema and so people that's how I
witness testimony is basically
manipulated so schema is a mental
representation of an object seen or even
example schema of a countryside may
include green grass Hills farm and so
that's what I was trying to explain to
you similarly there is something called
scripts which are mental organization of
events in time so what is the script a
script is how mental the how things
occur for example let's say dinner not
dinner is a script because then you
expect something to happen in sequence
for example you go to a dinner and you
start with the first course which is the
soup generally or some other hot
beverage which is out there then there
is a beverage to follow then there is a
scores a second course a third course
followed by sweet and then there is an
ending with an ice cream so we expect a
time-related fact to happen or traveling
in in in bus or a car and so you expect
a certain sequence of event to happen in
this sequence of event is what is called
a script so example is a classroom
script coming to the class sit down talk
to a friend
bell rings instructor begins to speak
and so on and so forth so is there is a
script of this particular thing memory
distortions so memory can be distorted
as people try to fit new information
into existing schema so basically if as
I said if I say that a person came in a
blue trouser a red trouser
you expect that in a classroom that can
happen so it will fit but if I say a
person came who was not wearing trousers
or not reading anything in a classroom
that's not possible and so that cannot
be accepted so giving misleading
information after an even causes
subjects to unknowingly distort their
memories and incorporate new memories
into people and this is called the
distortion of memory or misleading
information and this really happens so
as I explained to you the Loftus
experiment that they were discussing
let's look at what the Loftus experiment
was all about so subjects are shown a
video of an accident between two cars so
this is to card there's an accident to
it and some subjects were asked
questions like how fast were the cars
cars going or when they smashed into
each other and for the other question
people were asked how far the fast way
now the key word is smashed here and the
smashed means that they not actually
touched each other and when they
actually went ahead and had on collision
and so that is the key word here and so
this kind of an experiment when it was
done with people when it was asked how
fast the cars going when smashed was
used most people had a average rating of
41 miles per hour but when it was a
contacted word was used the speed came
down and so this is how false memory is
generated in the Loftus paradigm two
more types of memory which are there in
long-term memory is the autobiographical
memory in the false memory
sorry the flashbulb memory
into this one by one so basically what
is autobiographical memory it's a
real-world memory which are more durable
than laboratory memories
so basically automatical memory is a
memory of yourself so what do you do or
what are your personal memories of what
autobiographical memories are so some
items are forgotten because they are
hard to distinguish from other similar
memories what a vital memories generally
are memories that people have about
themselves so your own memory or what
happened in your life how it happened
what events took place and those kind of
memories are quite autobiographical
memory now see when to single even
memories are often combined into
extended summarized events so as you
progress in life what would happen is
that one memory could be connected with
so many other memories and so the memory
gets inflating and so your memory of who
you are as a child as you grew up this
adds on to it with several other factors
and so what happens is every other
members combined with it and then you
see your childhood as a particular thing
but when your child and when you what
memory you have and when you become an
adult and what memory of your childhood
that happens or what you remember is
basically what is called autobiography
so their actions are more likely to be
recalled that frequent action so those
features which are rare which never
happened too often are what are
remembered in more in autobiographical
memory another kind of memory which is
out there is called flashbulb memory and
what is this kind of memory so this kind
of memory was mostly related to
emotional events and so flashbulb memory
was popularized why because it was
believed that certain events in your
life create certain flashes or create
certain emotional events and when a
memory is that to that that is what is
called flashbulb memory for example
memories of what happened if you are a
cricket fan where were you if I ask you
this question where were you when India
won the 2011
world cup so most people who familiar
with this idea of Horace who who like
cricket or cricket fans will have very
good idea of where they were and so this
India winning was a flashbulb item which
basically meant that it it created us as
situation
it created a thing which was an event
which was emotional in nature and so
most people then go ahead and encode
this particular memory or encode their
own living their own context with this
kind of a memory and so these are what
is called false memory now two things to
remember that this flashbulb memory are
generally highly inaccurate in nature
and they are related to or they are more
prone to forgetting it distortions so
floral memory for example when you went
to a shopping trip with your mom and
your cousin somehow you wandered away in
a store and get lost a security guard
found you and you were reunited with
your mom about an hour later
this is flashbulb memory where this
event was so emotional that you actually
thought that whatever you thought during
that period of time whatever you felt
become a flash memory now this event
could have never happened but after
repeated question per nine percent of
people recalled having having this fault
episode so this kind of a structure was
given people were shown this kind of a
sentence and they were asked to remember
the sentence and then every call was
done and when people were again shown
this there was this particular
information again and again people were
shown this bit of information again
again they falsely recognized that this
could have happened and they remember
this flashbulb memory in this case this
is the 9/11 attack on United States so
most people do remember where they were
during the
eleven attack and it is what is the
Falls well false memories all about
so generally two things about this
memory it is highly inaccurate and then
it is related general related to
inaccuracies and forgetting than
distortions no there is a methodological
way to create false memories now we we
saw how I witness testimony is one way
to do false memories but there is
another way to create false memories and
that is called the DS Rho dragger and
make them a paradigm to show that
memories are inaccurate and to show the
fact that false memories or memories
that never occur can actually be created
and embedded into people's mind now for
the DRM paradigm a list like this is
given to people now these lists are
semantically the words in this list are
semantically related to each other for
example dark dream pillow nap night
white and I am very sure that when you
look at this list you do know or it it
seems to you that all these words are
highly semantically related or highly
connected to the word sleep it seems
like these words are very connected to
the word sleep and so that is what it is
all about so basically what happens is
our list like this is presented to
people but the theme word here the theme
what under which most of these words
fall which is sleep is not presented so
it when this happens and people are just
given this list and where they're asked
to recall this this back
most people along among these 80% people
also remember the word sleep also recall
the word sleep that what does it really
mean the theme word was never presented
but people falsely recognized this word
and first recognized the category theme
work so 80 percent of participants
falsely recognized sleep as having been
on the list as it even if it wasn't
there and so this is one way of creating
false memory or distortions in memory
now you know that long-term memory is
highly inaccurate in nature it
always on the edges and so you can never
trust a long-term memory the reason is
that this jesting process of extracting
only relevant information from whatever
information is happening from whatever
event is happening if taking only the
relevant information is a classic thing
for long-term memory because that is how
it saves space what it does is if
whatever information is passed on on the
short-term memory whatever kind of or
whatever context it has or whatever pre
information it has it takes in any new
information
whatever is coming from the SS
short-term store and Maps this to the
long-term store or to the already known
store otherwise if the information that
is coming to you for example if you take
breakfast every day the things like you
make breakfast every day or you sleep
every day that kind of information is
redundant it is not needed but let's say
some day you sleep and a burglary
happens in me in your home now that
information will be because burglary is
not what was not expected in some noble
information and something which you
never expected to be so this information
will be embedded so with sleep
information this information will be
embedded otherwise your normal sleep
information will not be embedded here
now there as if memories are important
to us so is a process called amnesia
which is basically not remembering
things or not remembering long-term
memory and so there are two types of
memory amnesia one near the dough great
in the retrograde amnesia
so integrity media is the ability to
learn new information after the initial
point of memory loss or an example is hm
so in integrated media they is basically
what it leads to is the inability to
learn new information so anything with
the short-term memory is basically not
coded at all so you'll learn very well
or you remember very well information of
the past from the present you do not
remember and
and that is called integrate or is just
old memories in LTM remain intact so you
remember everything from the past but
new informations don't get encoded there
and in this case general knowledge and
skills remain intact so you know every
fact you know every detail but personal
memories from new some new event is
never encoded only old memories are
encoded in a classic study is a other
patient hm similarly the retrograde
amnesia of a loss of memory for
information stored before the point of a
memory loss so what happens is if you
have an accident and you forget
everything from before this is called
retrograde amnesia in retrograde amnesia
key things from the past are forgotten
new things can be retrieved new things
can be added up but all things cannot be
stored or all things cannot be accessing
this is retro in India and spares over
learned information and skills so those
skills which you practice so much are
that the procedure and memory basically
is spared in this case ok so basically
then in this section what we did was we
looked at several kind of memories
long-term memories what are they what
kind of long-term memory is what is the
need of long-term memory
what is its capacity and we also looked
at from spanning from capacity we also
looked at the kind of forgetting that
happens here we looked at different
types of long-term memory different kind
of interferences which is there and
whether what is the format which is
there and then whether it long-term
memories are inaccurate or not and if
that is in the accuracy in memories if
there is some kind of distortions in
long-term memory
what is the reason from the distortions
also what these distortions lead to or
what these distortions are and how does
the distortions really function is what
we looked at we also looked at two
different kinds of memory when the one
is a portable memory which is the
knowledge of oneself and the flashbulb
memory which is a kind of memory which
is attached to highly emotional
incidence in
one's like not American memory is
basically is very difficult to test the
reason being that nobody knows your
auto-rifle memory and so testing of it
is really really difficult but with
flashbulb memory testings can be done
and so a lot of work in threshold memory
was done where it was found out that the
flash is not needed at all basically
there is no need for this emotionality
even and so this kind of memories are
the flashbulb and the auto worker memory
although they very popular but a lot of
testing has not been done on to it and
so these are parts of long-term memory
but lot of questions are not being done
into it so they're two classifications
or two kinds of memory which exist in
the long-term store is basically the
procedural and declarative in the
upcoming lectures will not look at the
procedural ones because it's a little
bit difficult to look at procedural
memories and since this is a very basic
level course so we look into the
declarative parts of memory into it so
in the upcoming lectures we look into
both the semantic type of memory what a
store how does it store what are the
models for it what is the way in which
it functions and so on and so forth
we'll also look at the episodic memory
of how imaginary visual imagery visual
imagination happens authors visual
images and so how events are stored how
are they are retrieved and that kind of
information that kind of feedback is
what we will look into in the upcoming
lectures and so we look into detail
these kinds of long-term memory so
overall then in this particular lecture
we just looked at long-term memory
subdivisions how it functions always
forgets types of it and the
well how if any queries exist how does
it exist and how these inaccuracies are
basically mapped for or accounted for so
let's meet next class and discuss some
other types of long term memories and
how they function thank you
[Music]
you